Imagine a door that stands between your most private thoughts and anyone with a key to that door can peep into your life and every conversation you ever had or will have. Now would you hand that key to an authority who says they want to keep you in check and make sure you aren't doing anything wrong. Probably not the wisest idea, because it would just be a matter of time when the authority abused this access. So why are you willing to give up your personal data to a centralized authority? 

Privacy, a much foreign concept in today's post modern society, is one's ability to disclose information consensually and with expectations about the context and scope of sharing. Privacy is a right granted to individuals that underpins the freedoms of expression, association and assembly; all of which are essential for a free, democratic society.  Privacy is the key that unlocks your most deepest desires, your inadequacies, your mistakes, your traumas, your fears, your losses, your failures and everything that makes you unique. And for someone to have the ability to tear that all away from you is a scary thought, but when you willing hand over the key to an authority saying that you have nothing to hide, you make it possible for anyone who doesn't have your best interest at heart to exploit that data to further their own agenda. Privacy matters because the lack of it gives others power over you.

For one to seek the shelter of privacy is considered wrong by people who wield power because for them wrong typically means doing something that poses meaningful challenges to the exercise of their power.  The Australian government has been contently passing laws that are striping the Australian citizen of their very individuals’ right to privacy, anonymity, and protection from having their personal information collected. Laws such as the data retension act provides the Australian goverment unrestricted access to everything the citizens do on the open web, and gives them tools to track each citizens behaviour on the internet. The law requires companies to retain data of Australian users for at least 2 years. There laws are unlikely to achieve its stated objective and thwart serious terrorist activities. There are a range of widely-accessible technologies that can be used to circumvent the government’s surveillance regime. But however, the everyday public, who don't have a clue on how dangerously this infreinges
on their fundamental human rights, are the ones going to be affected the worse. 

Internet is the only remaining free and unbiased platform where each one of us can voice our views and for a state police it, will not only lay the groundworks of a tottalitarian goverment but also push us towards a dystopian regime. An open and univerasal internet is most effective tool we have to address the very issues that aflict the world at hand.